<pageinfo>
In this page, we would like to provide some scientific information related to the coronavirus pandemic and on seasonal influenza 
</pageinfo>

Given the numerous common aspects between COVID-19 and the seasonal flu (especially in terms of symptoms) and with the approach of the winter season, it is understandable that some confusion may arise among the population on how to distinguish the two diseases. However, these are two diseases with marked differences, starting from the pathogen that causes them. COVID-19 is in fact caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus, a new strain of coronavirus that has not previously been identified in humans [
https://www.salute.gov.it/portale/malattieInfettive/dettaglioFaqMalattieInfettive.jsp?lingua=italiano&id=228
call_made
]. Influenza, on the other hand, is caused by an RNA virus from the Orthomyxoviridae family [https://www.epicentro.iss.it/influenza/tec]. What can cause confusion between the two pathologies is the commonality of some symptoms, which makes it even more difficult to make a clear distinction between the two in the absence of virological confirmation.
At the moment, the only way to verify the presence or absence of a new Coronavirus infection is to undergo a nasopharyngeal swab. Since the beginning of the pandemic, the World Health Organization has tried to outline similarities and differences between seasonal flu and COVID-19. Both diseases mainly affect the respiratory system, with very variable symptoms from mild, moderate or severe, which can even cause the death of the individual in more extreme and complex cases. In the case of COVID-19, it is estimated that a significant fraction of people who contract COVID-19 have no symptoms and never develop them during the course of the disease. There is also a significant fraction of infected people who remain in the pre-symptomatic phase for a long time, before developing symptoms, during which they are able to infect many other people. Both diseases are caused by viral infections and are spread by saliva droplets, contact, coughing, sneezing. The main symptoms are similar: fever above 37.5 °, cough, cold, muscle aches, runny nose, sore throat. In the case of COVID-19, very specific symptoms such as loss of smell or taste can arise.
Seasonal flu has a shorter incubation period, i.e. between the infection and the manifestation of the first symptoms the time is shorter than in COVID-19. COVID-19 is much more contagious than the flu virus, this means that a person positive for COVID-19 can infect many more people than a person with the flu. According to the data collected so far, COVID-19 presents severe symptoms (for example, oxygen is needed) in about 15-20% of cases, while 5% of the infected have critical infections, which require hospitalization in intensive care . Seasonal flu, on the other hand, has a much lower rate of serious and critical infections. The subjects most at risk of influenza infection are children, pregnant women, the elderly. For COVID-19, on the other hand, at least in the first months there was a prevalence of infections and severe symptoms in elderly subjects and in the presence of comorbidities, therefore of other previous pathologies. Mortality from COVID-19 is much higher than that from seasonal flu. What are the symptoms of COVID-19? All the information reported is important to understand the nature of the COVID-19 phenomenon with respect to seasonal flu, but it is also true that a subject, in particular a parent with school-age children, needs to distinguish between the two by evaluating the symptoms and the state of health.
Notwithstanding that the only way to have a reliable diagnosis the only effective test to date is a nasopharyngeal swab, here is what a new coronavirus infection could look like:
Breathing difficulties, even severe ones, characterized by dyspnea, otherwise known as “hunger for air”: simply put, the COVID-19 positive person may not be able to breathe regularly, as happens under normal conditions after making a major physical effort (for example, after a run). Diarrhea, especially in children. The latter, unfortunately this is not a symptom unrelated to seasonal flu, but it must be said that in most cases, especially pediatric, it is caused by another virus, rotavirus, at the base of typical gastroenteritis, for which a vaccine is also provided. optional at an early age. It is therefore very common for a person to contract rotavirus and have diarrhea, but without flu symptoms. If, on the other hand, he has a fever, cough and cold, plus diarrhea, it could be COVID-19. Sudden loss of smell (anosmia) or decreased sense of smell (hyposmia), loss of taste (ageusia) or alteration of taste (dysgeusia), very rare for influenza. In the presence of these symptoms, it is likely to think that you have contracted COVID-19, but it is still essential to wait for a clinical diagnosis from your doctor who, should he deem it appropriate, will request the swab to be performed by the competent bodies.

